<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_assemble_typewriter">
  <title>Assemble the Typewriter</title>
  <shortdesc>
  It is important to carefully reassemble the typewriter after cleaning to ensure all components are securely in place and functioning properly.
  </shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <steps>
     <step>
      <cmd>Line up the metal segment plate with the typewriter feet.</cmd>
      <stepresult>The segment plate must be placed evenly on both feet.</stepresult>
     </step>
    <step>
     <note type ="tip">The prongs need not be forced. If aligned properly, they should slide in effortlessly</note>
     <cmd>Slide the two prongs on one side of the plate into the two slots on their respective typewriter foot.</cmd>
   </step>
    <step>
     <cmd>Firmly push down until the prongs on the other side of the plate line up with the slots in the remaining foot.</cmd>
      <substeps audience ="novice">
       <substep>
        <cmd>Apply gentle pressure in the direction of the inserted prong-slot while pushing down</cmd>
       </substep>
       <substep>
        <cmd>Remove pressure from the other side once the prongs are fully inserted into the foot slots.</cmd>
         </substep>
      </substeps>
    </step>
     <step>
      <note type = "caution">Small misalignment can cause screws to cross-thread, adjust the panel gently</note>
      <cmd>Line up the panel component screw slots with their corresponding slots on the typewriter frame.</cmd>
     </step>
    <step>
     <cmd>Insert and tighten the panel screws until all panel components are reattached.</cmd>
     </step>
    <step>
     <cmd>If any key caps or knobs were removed in the cleaning process, reattach them now.</cmd>
    </step>
   </steps>
   <result>
    Your typewriter should now be fully assembled, with all panels secured and components functioning smoothly.
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>