<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_repair_mainspring">
  <title>Repair The Mainspring</title>
  <shortdesc>You can repair a typewriter mainspring by removing the mainspring housing and applying degreaser to clean the mainspring before reattaching the mainspring housing to your typewriter.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
     <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Remove the mainspring housing from the typewriter by unscrewing the two barrel attachment screws.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set the mainspring housing on a rag, with the metal side of the barrel facing up.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <note type="warning">Once degreaser reaches the mainspring, the barrel may jump or pop.</note>
        <cmd>Using the pipette or dropper, apply two to three drops of degreaser on the center screw slot.</cmd>
      </step>
       <step>
        <cmd>Use a stiff-bristle brush and a soft-bristle brush as needed to clean debris from the center screw.</cmd>
      </step>
       <step>
        <cmd>Spray the barrel with compressed air to remove loosened debris.</cmd>
      </step>
       <step>
        <cmd>Repeat steps 4 through 6 until the spring barrel rotates with ease.</cmd>
      </step>
       <step>
        <cmd>Dry the barrel using a lint free cloth and compressed air.</cmd>
      </step>
       <step>
        <cmd>Reattach the mainspring housing to the typewriter undercarriage by screwing in the two attachment screws.</cmd>
      </step>
       <step>
        <cmd>Follow the steps in the section section titled "Reattach the drawband" to reattach the drawband to the mainspring housing.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>