<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_reattach_drawband">
  <title>Reattach The Drawband</title>
  <shortdesc>You can reattach a typewriter drawband by building tension in the mainspring barrel and inserting the drawband into the barrel slot.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Slide the typewriter carriage to the right hand side.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <note type="important">Ensure that the end of the drawband is still knotted or has a hooked end.</note>
        <cmd>Locate the end of the drawband.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <note type="note">Three to four full rotations should suffice.</note>
        <cmd>Build tension in the mainspring by rotating the mainspring barrel towards the right side of the carriage.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Locate the drawband hole and drawband slot in the mainspring barrel.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Insert the end of the drawband into the drawband hole.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Slide the drawband into the thin barrel slot.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <note type="caution">Releasing the mainspring barrel too quickly could snap or loosen the drawband.</note>
        <cmd>Release the mainspring barrel slowly while holding the drawband parallel to the barrel until tension in the barrel is fully released.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <note type="note">If there is slack in the drawband, the mainspring barrel did not have enough tension when inserting the drawband. Remove the drawband and try again.</note>
        <cmd>Visually inspect the drawband to check for adequate tension.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>