<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_replace_platen">
  <title>Replace The Platen Roller</title>
  <shortdesc>After identifying the need for a full replacement, and after removing the platen roller from the typewriter, follow the next steps.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
       <steps>
        <step>
          <cmd>Remove the screw that is connecting the right-hand platen knob to the roller.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Slide the platen knob, shaft mechanisms, and washers off the metal platen roller shaft.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Locate the variable mechanism spring on the left hand side of the platen roller.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Using a hook tool, slide the variable mechanism spring prongs out of the slots in the platen roller.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Using the same hook tool, gently slide the spring up and over the collar at the end of the platen roller shaft.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Unwrap your new platen roller.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Take the variable mechanism spring from the old platen roller, and insert each prong into their respective slots on the new platen roller.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Using a hook tool, gently slide the springs over the platen shaft collar and into place.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Slide the washer, shaft mechanisms, and platen knob onto the other end of the platen roller shaft.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Attach and install the screw from the old platen roller that connects the right-hand platen knob to the platen roller shaft.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Insert the newly refinished platen roller into the typewriter using the section below, titled "Insert the Platen Roller."</cmd>
        </step>
       </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>