<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="r_typewriter_paper_types">
  <title>Types of Paper You Should and Should Not Use In A Manual Typewriter</title>
  <shortdesc>
    There are many types of paper with various uses. It is important to know what is appropriate to use in a typewriter, and what should be avoided.
  </shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <!--Papers you SHOULD use-->
    <section>
      <title>Papers You Should Use</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Standard Printing Paper</dt>
          <dd>20 lb bond paper, feeds easily, rarely jams, absorbs ink, works best with a backing sheet.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Heavy-Weight Paper</dt>
          <dd>24-28 lb bond paper, resists ink bleed-through. Typically used for letterhead, stationery, and manuscripts. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Textured Paper</dt>
          <dd>Papers such as vellum, linen, kraft, and embossed, typically used for crafting and elaborate stationery. They hold ink well, and are thick enough to not require a backing sheet.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Cotton Paper</dt>
          <dd>25%-100% cotton paper, more durable than typical paper materials, typewriter printing is most crisp on cotton materials.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Backing Sheets</dt>
          <dd>A protective sheet, made of thick paper, placed behind the typing paper in order to protect the rubber platen roller.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <!--Papers you SHOULD NOT use-->
    <section>
      <title>Papers You Should NOT Use</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Carbon Paper</dt>
          <dd>Printing on carbon paper required 3 to 4 sheets of paper to be inserted at once, which often leads to jamming or will excessively stress the typewriter platen.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Coated Paper</dt>
          <dd>Papers with additional coatings to increase smoothness or weight should be avoided as they do not absorb ink well and can lead to smudging.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Glossed/Picture Paper</dt>
          <dd>Glossed paper may have difficulty being grabbed by the platen and feed rollers, and will not absorb ink well, leading to smudging.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>