<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_cleaning_warnings">
  <title>Warnings and Precautions for Cleaning Materials</title>
  <shortdesc>Cleaning materials and solvents may have adverse effects on typewriter materials. It is important to test cleaning agents and tools before applying them to a typewriter.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <note type="warning">If bubbling, discoloration, or paint stripping occurs, remove the cleaner immediately. A gentler cleaning solution should be tested.</note>
    </li>
    <li>
      <note type="warning">Contact with decals, branding components, and model names should be avoided. Even mild soap and water can remove painted details.</note>
    </li>
    <li>
      <note type="warning">Mineral spirits should not come into contact with rubber or soft-plastic components, including the platen, feeder, and paper bail rollers. Mineral spirits will degrade rubber over time.</note>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <note type="tip" audience="expert">If key caps, knobs, or other high-touch surfaces have tar buildup indicated by severe yellowing, they may be soaked in a 3% hydrogen peroxide solution for 4 to 8 hours to remove discoloration.</note>
  <note type="tip" audience="expert">If the typewriter has steel or aluminum panels, car wax may be applied according to the product directions to create a glossy finish and prevent rusting.</note>
  </conbody>
</concept>