<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_cleaning_materials_types">
  <title>Cleaning Materials for Typewriters</title>
  <shortdesc>
  Various cleaning materials are used to maintain and restore typewriters. It is essential to know what materials are best for your typewriter.
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
  <section>
      <title>Recommended Cleaning Materials</title>
      <p>
        Safe cleaning materials remove dust, ink, and residue, without damaging typewriter components. 
        Recommended cleaning materials include:
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>Mild soap and water, or diluted all-purpose cleaners.</li>
        <li>Mineral spirits, gentle degreasers, or rubbing alcohol for removing oil and grime.</li>
        <li>Compressed air with thin nozzle attachments for dislodging debris from tight spaces.</li>
        <li>Soft-bristle brushes, such as car detailing brushes or toothbrushes.</li>
        <li>Lint-free cloths, microfiber towels, and cotton swabs for surface cleaning.</li>
        <li>Light-weight oils such as sewing machine oil or typewriter-specific lubricants.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Materials to Avoid</title>
      <p>
        Avoid the following cleaning materials as they can damage internal mechanisms, paint, and rubber components.
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>Acetone, nail polish remover, and other strong solvents that dissolve paint and plastics.</li>
        <li>Bleach, ammonia, and other corrosive cleaners.</li>
        <li>Abrasive pads, steel wool, and coarse sandpaper that can scratch surfaces.</li>
        <li>WD-40, and other heavy oils that leave residue and attract dust.</li>
        <li>High-pressure air compressors without a regulator, which can dislodge delicate parts.</li>
      </ul>
  </section>
  <section>
    <note type="tip">Refer to the Typewriter Maintenance Materials topic for more details on cleaning materias.</note>
  </section>
  </conbody>
  </concept>