<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_line_spacing_options">
  <title>Line Spacing Options Available in Typewriters</title>
  <shortdesc>
  Line spacing options determine the platten movement after each line of text
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Common Line Spacing Options</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>Single spacing</b>: Produces the most compact text layout. 
          It is often used for drafts, notes, or documents where space efficiency is prioritized. 
          This spacing provides minimal vertical distance between lines, giving a dense text appearance.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>Double spacing</b>: Provides balanced spacing between lines, improving legibility and visual clarity. 
          It is the most common choice for formal documents, academic writing, or any material that may require annotations.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>Triple spacing</b>: Creates wide separation between lines. 
          This setting is typically used for editing, proofreading, or instructional material where additional space is needed for comments or corrections.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Variation Across Models</title>
      <p>
        Most typewriters offer two or three spacing options. 
        Advanced or newer machines may provide additional intermediate settings, while older or simpler models are limited to standard single and double spacing. 
        The number of available options often reflects the mechanical design and sophistication of the typewriter.
      </p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>