<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_loading-paper-issues">
  <title>Common Issues When Loading Paper</title>
  <shortdesc>
  Understanding the common issues encountered when loading paper into a typewriter ensures smooth operation, and prevents damage to the device as well as the paper. 
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Paper Release Lever Activated</dt>
      <dd>
        When the paper release lever is unintentionally left open, the platen cannot grip the paper securely, causing slipping and misalignment. 
        Ensuring the lever is fully closed restores proper paper tension.
      </dd>
    </dlentry>

    <dlentry>
      <dt>Damaged or Worn Platen</dt>
      <dd>
        Platen rollers may harden or lose friction over time. 
        Cleaning can offer temporary improvement, but significant deterioration requires resurfacing or replacement.
      </dd>
    </dlentry>

    <dlentry>
      <dt>Damaged Paper Bail</dt>
      <dd>
        A bent bail bar or cracked rollers prevents consistent pressure on the paper, leading to instability during typing. 
        Replacement of worn or damaged components is often necessary for reliable operation.
      </dd>
    </dlentry>

    <dlentry>
      <dt>Unsuitable Paper Thickness</dt>
      <dd>
        Paper that is too thin may slip under the rollers, while thick paper can strain the feeding mechanism. 
        Select a paper weight that is appropriate for your typewriter to prevent jams and feeding errors.
      </dd>
    </dlentry>

  </dl>
  </conbody>
</concept>