<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_lubrication_guidelines">
  <title>Lubrication Guidelines for Typewriters</title>
  <shortdesc>
    Proper lubrication is essential for maintaining the smooth operation and longevity of typewriter components.
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
   <p>
      Portable typewriters generally do not need regular lubrication, as they are protected by their casing. 
      However, metal-on-metal components can sometimes develop friction, which will require occasional lubrication to remedy.
    </p>

    <p>
      Only use light weight oils. Oils that are generally acceptable in typewriter maintenance include sewing machine oils, gun oils, and specialized typewriter lubricants.
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>Warning:</b> Never use heavy oils, like motor oils or other automotive or household lubricants, as they are too heavy for the delicate mechanics of a typewriter and will cause the gears and links to gum up and become stuck.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>Warning:</b> Never oil any rubber components: applying oil to the platen, feeder, or paper bail rollers will degrade the rubber over time and transfer to the ink ribbon and paper.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>Warning:</b> Avoid oiling the segment, vibrator mechanics, or line spacing mechanics. While these components move frequently and are metal-on-metal connections, they are most susceptible to attracting dust and debris given that they are fully exposed during use.
      </li>
    </ul>

    <p>
      Identify metal-on-metal connections, gears, and pivot points that seem to be hesitant in movement or completely stiff. 
      Common areas that will need lubrication include the carriage rails, and internal pivot points, levers, and gears.
    </p>

    <p>
      Using a precision applicator, such as a small pipet or medicine dropper, apply one to two drops of oil where needed, immediately wiping away the excess with a rag or cotton swab.
    </p>

    <note>
      It is important not to excessively oil a typewriter, as even light weight lubricants will attract dust and debris over time, causing more harm than good in the long run. 
      Only use minimal oil, wiping away any excess as you go.
    </note>
  </conbody>
</concept>