<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_materials_required_clean_typewriter">
  <title>Materials Required to Clean Your Typewriter</title>
  <shortdesc>Multiple materials are required for the successful cleaning of your typewriter.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Typewriter and Workspace</title>
      <ul>
        <li>A portable manual smith corona typewriter</li>
        <li>A well-ventilated workspace</li>
        <li>Access to direct sunlight or a fan for drying purposes</li>
        <li>Plastic sheeting or paper towels for work-surface protection</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Protective Gear</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Nitrile gloves</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Cleaning Tools</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Compressed air with thin nozzle attachments. This can be an air can or machine air compressor</li>
        <li>Soft-bristle brush. A car detailing brush or toothbrush can be used.</li>
        <li>Cleaning picks or toothpicks</li>
        <li>Cotton swabs</li>
        <li>Multiple lint-free rags such as microfiber towels</li>
        <li>Spray bottle with nozzle head or a dropper bottle</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Cleaning Solutions</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Clean rinse water</li>
        <li>Mineral spirits, gentle degreaser, or rubbing alcohol</li>
        <li>Cleaning solution. Mild soap and water is ideal. All-purpose cleaners or detergents can also be used.</li>
      </ul>
      <note type="tip">You can use hydrogen peroxide for stubborn stains or discoloration.</note>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Maintenance Tools</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Light-weight oil, such as sewing machine oil, gun oil, or specialized typewriter oil</li>
        <li>Precision oil applicator</li>
        <li>Mini screwdriver set</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>