<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
  <concept id="c_prep_to_change_ribbon">
    <title>Typewriter Ribbon Replacement Preparation</title>
    <shortdesc>
    It is important to maintain a clean, organized workspace while replacing the ribbon. This involves ensuring materials are arranged properly and surfaces are protected from ink stains. 
    </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Key Considerations</title>
      
      <note type="tip">
        Preparing your workspace in advance prevents accidental ink stains and reduces cleanup time after the ribbon replacement.
      </note>

      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>Surface protection</b> – The use of plastic coverings, paper towels, or absorbent cloth prevents ink from staining tables and surrounding surfaces.
          <note type="attention">
            Ink from typewriter ribbons can transfer quickly, always protect your surface before opening the ribbon spools.
          </note>
        </li>

        <li>
          <b>Ribbon Organization</b> – A designated space for both the new and used ribbons ensures clear separation and minimizes contamination.
          <note type="tip">
            Keep the used ribbon away from the new one to prevent accidental mixing or ink transfer.
          </note>
        </li>

        <li>
          <b>Clean handling area</b> – A tidy workspace supports accuracy in positioning and avoids interference from external objects or dust.
          <note type="note">
            Remove pens, paper, and dust from the immediate area.
          </note>
        </li>

        <li>
          <b>Ink management awareness</b> – Understanding that ribbons contain high ink saturation helps prevent unintended smudges and residue transfer.
          <note type="caution">
            Avoid touching the ribbon fabric directly, as ink may stain your fingers and transfer to other components.
          </note>
        </li>

        <li>
          <b>Preventive preparation</b> – Workspace setup functions as a precautionary measure that reflects attention to maintenance efficiency and cleanliness.
          <note type="tip">
            A well-prepared workspace can significantly speed up the ribbon replacement process, especially for beginners.
          </note>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    </conbody>
  </concept>