<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_prerequities-typewriter-usage">
  <title>Common Prerequities to Consider Before Using a Manual Typewriter</title>
  <shortdesc>
  Essential factors to evaluate before operating a manual typewriter.
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
  <section>
    <title>Required Materials</title>
    <ul>
      <li><b>Typewriter</b> – A fully functional manual typewriter with responsive keys and a properly aligned platen.</li>
      <li><b>Paper</b> – Standard printer paper is compatible with most models, though older typewriters may require thicker stock paper for adequate grip and print clarity.</li>
    </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Workspace Preparation</title>
    <ul>
      <li>Position the typewriter on a stable, flat surface to minimize vibration and ensure steady typing.</li>
      <li>Ensure adequate lighting for clear visibility of keys and typed text.</li>
      <li>Keep essential accessories, such as extra paper or ribbons, within easy reach.</li>
    </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Space Requirements</title>
    <ul>
      <li>Provide sufficient desk space to allow free movement of the carriage without obstruction.</li>
      <li>Allow clearance behind the machine for paper to feed and exit smoothly.</li>
      <li>Maintain an uncluttered surrounding area to support comfortable arm and hand movement.</li>
    </ul>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Posture and Positioning</title>
    <ul>
      <li>Sit upright with your back supported and feet flat on the floor.</li>
      <li>Align the typewriter at or slightly below elbow height to reduce wrist strain.</li>
      <li>Relax shoulders and maintain neutral wrist alignment while typing to prevent fatigue.</li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>