<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_risks_preacutions_lubrication">
  <title>Risks and Precautions in Typewriter Lubrication</title>
  <shortdesc>There are important precautions for lubricating a typewriter, as improper lubrication can cause mechanical damage, attract debris, or create safety hazards during typewriter maintenance.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <ul>
      <li>Excessive lubrication attracts dust, lint, and debris, forming sticky residue that restricts the movement of components.</li>
      <li>Heavy oils such as motor oil, WD-40, or household lubricants are too viscous for delicate mechanisms and can solidify, leading to seized parts.</li>
      <li>Rubber components such as the platen, rollers, or feeders degrade when exposed to oil, resulting in cracking and residue transfer to the ribbon and paper.</li>
      <li>Exposed mechanisms, including the segment, vibrator, and line-spacing assemblies, collect dust when oiled, reducing performance and increasing maintenance needs.</li>
      <li>Aerosol lubricants and solvent-based sprays dissolve paint and decals and leave films that cause long-term residue buildup.</li>
      <li>Oils and cleaning agents emit fumes that can irritate skin and lungs and may be flammable in enclosed spaces.</li>
    </ul>
    <note type="attention">Using small amounts of light oil only on essential metal connections minimizes wear without attracting debris or causing damage to exposed or rubber components.</note>
  </conbody>
</concept>