<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_potential_ribbon_issues-post-replacement">
  <title>Potential Issues After Replacing the Ribbon</title>
  <shortdesc>
  Smudgy or unclear letters after installing a new ribbon may indicate issues with ribbon tautness or dirty type slugs. 
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
   <p>
    After a new ribbon is installed, your text may continue to appear smudgy or unclear occassionally. 
    This issue often results from insufficient ribbon tautness or surface cleanliness on the type slugs.
    Recognizing these underlying conditions helps ensure the ribbon functions effectively within the typewriter’s mechanical system.
   </p>
   <section>
      <title>Ribbon Tension</title>
      <p>
        A newly installed ribbon can sometimes lack adequate tension. 
        When the ribbon is too loose, its surface does not meet the paper evenly during typing, leading to excessive ink transfer and smudging. 
        Proper ribbon tautness allows for consistent contact and cleaner ink impressions.
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Residue on Type Slugs</title>
      <p>
        Ink residue or small particles of debris may accumulate on the type slugs during the ribbon installation process. 
        This buildup prevents even ink distribution and results in blurred or smudged characters. 
        Clean type slugs contribute to precise, well-defined text impressions.
      </p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>