<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_case_considerations">
  <title>Smith-Corona Typewriter Cases and Care Considerations</title>
  <shortdesc>
  Portable Smith-Corona typewriters are typically stored in protective cases designed to prevent staining and wear, with specific care needs depending on the case material
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
  <section>
      <title>Smith-Corona Holiday Case</title>
      <p>
        Portable Smith-Corona machines are commonly stored in a case known as the “Holiday Case.” 
        This case is slightly larger than standard typewriter carriers and can be disassembled. 
        Like Smith-Corona typewriter panels, Holiday Cases are made of a non-porous material that resists staining, 
        allowing most marks to be removed with mild soap and water.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Alternate Case Styles</title>
      <p>
        Some machines were sold in different styles of cases. 
        The care process for these cases varies based on their materials and construction.
      </p>
      <p>
        Cases made of other materials may have hinges that need to be unscrewed for removal rather than unhooked. 
        The cleaning solution required may also differ depending on the case’s material.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Machines Without Cases</title>
      <p>
        Some Smith-Corona models were shipped with only a dust cover instead of a full portable case. 
        In such cases, steps related to case frames and hinges may not apply. 
        Machines without a case or dust cover benefit from being stored in one, as doing so extends the overall life of the typewriter.
      </p>
    </section>
   <section>
     <note>
      For leather, cloth, or carpet-style cases, the cleaning solution should be selected carefully. 
      Research and patch test all detergents and cleaners before use to prevent damage or discoloration.
    </note>
   </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>